---
layout: post
title: "Intro"
date: 2015-01-26
category: teaching
tags: web design, graphic design, tutorials
image: 
---

Most graphic design students are awesome at design. they are also great at outputting their work to the right format for however it'll be displayed, they even have an ingrained idea of what makes good UX design, because they've so many different types of design. package design isn't only aesthetics, but user experience also, how it opens is the user interaction, what you see when it opens, how the items inside are presented, all of this is part of the user experience. If you look at print design, graphic designers know that point size of typefaces matter, and that they change with context, legibility is also user experience. So why not leverage those talents for the web?

### The purpose of this series.

The purpose of this series is to guide you through the design and development of your portfolio website, because all designers, regardless of discipline, need a web presence. It's easier than you think.

I'll break these posts down into several major points. first I'll start with creating a digital portfolio which will eventually become your website. I'll use my own as an example and it needs a redesign anyway. Starting from the ideation phase and a mock-up done in illustrator, to the HTML/CSS prototype. Finally I'll show how to port it over for two different CMS's the first being WordPress, since you can't really avoid it if you work on the internet. secondly Expression Engine core, since it's free and completely different than WordPress.  

#### Your Portfolio

Before we even start lets look at some bare minimums, we need a portfolio to work with.

This is something you should already have ready to go. What I didn't know when I transitioned my portfolio from print to web is the hands-off nature of your content once it's put on to the web. I couldn't explain my design choices to the person looking at it. They judged it from the visual aspect alone. If you're lucky some will actually read the descriptions that are included.

Another thing to consider; a critic is much more harsh when they don't have to look at you in the face. So definitely only use your best work. If you have *any* doubt, then drop it until you get a second opinion or third opinion. you should get a second opinion on work you also think is good, because sometimes it isn't.

>Sometimes you can't see the forest for the trees.

You'll want your online portfolio to be a part of your print portfolio. they should feel the same they should be your **brand.** When you're first starting out your name is your brand, and that's the only thing you have going for you at the time. The online portfolio is an extension of your previous work. Keep that in mind as you start to design your website. I could go on with other portfolio tips, but that's not the point of this post.

That's it for now. next will be the design post.

hello world
